= The vpd FAQ
:icons: font
:toc:

== Why start a new video player?

Well, vpd is not really a video player. Instead, it uses well established and
awesome vlc to render the videos. However, vlc lacks a remote capable daemon
mode, and that's vpd's job! Advanced vlc users may ask why not just add a new
"interface" to vlc? Well, that would not allow cascading player programs or
even using another player instead of vlc, depending on the URI to be played.

== Why did you start this project?

I started this project when I realized that I cannot find a suitable media
center capable of playing nicely with my HiFiBerry and with the Raspberry PI
B+'s video decoding hardware at the same time. vlc actually can do that but
it's remote capabilities are somewhat limited. Besides, I recently switched to
mpd and find it's capabilities really awesome. I wanted the same for my video
streams and files.

== What's the pilosophy of the vpd project?

VPD aims to follow the Unix philosophy, so it'll stay simple and will do one
single job - orchestrate system tools to play videos on your dedicated
hardware. It'll allow you to do that in the simplest manner, using simple
command-line tools or smartphone remotes. So you'll never see no stinking
"up/down" remote control! I think that kind of remote control is simply not
suited for the task of remote controlling something. It was invented at the
ages where embedded systems were very expensive to produce. At that time we
used simple logic circuits to control the state of some analog circuitry which
was the TV-set. Why reproduce that kind of remote control today when a simple
Raspberry PI had more power than my first PC and it successfully replaced my
TV-set? Remember, we like new technologies and keeping the old fashioned
remote with it's dumb up/dow/left/right only buttons is simply unacceptable.

== Why did you use raspbian wheezy?

The sound of my Raspberry PI B+ is quite distorted, especially at low volumes.
Therefore, I discovered and bought the
link:https://www.hifiberry.com/[HiFiBerry] sound card and it's amazing sound.
At the time of this writing, it works correctly, out-of-the-box only on
raspbian. So, even if I'm an link:http://archlinux.org[Archlinux] addict, I
was forced to stay with link:http://www.raspbian.org/[Raspbian] wheezy and
it's rather old packages. The installation process in this platform is rather
long, but it's worth the effort, in my opinion. And soon the jessie version
will be out and all these problems will be gone. Alternatively you may set-up
a crosscompiling environment, as described in the
link:installing.html[Installing] section.

